As we discussed in the last video, let's implement this custom abstract class.
This is going to extend the base error class.
We're then going to make sure that request validation error and database connection error extend custom
error instead of the error built in.
So let's get to it.
Back inside my editor, I'll find the ears directory.
I'm going to make a new file inside there called Custom Airports.
Then inside of here, I'm going to declare a new class.
New abstract class to be precise.
So abstract class.
Custom air.
And this is going to extend or extends the built in air class.
Then inside of here, we're going to list out all the different properties that must be defined by any
class that extends this very similar to how an interface works.
Remember, we write out interfaces and then we try to satisfy the interface.
Same thing with abstract classes or the way in which we write out these properties that subclasses must
implement.
It's just slightly different.
We're going to write out abstract status code number.
So this is saying that if you're going to extend customer, you got to have a status code property and
it must be a number.
By writing out abstract right there.
That's what's saying that a subclass must implement this thing.
So we can test this out right away.
We can say, Hey, let's have a new class right here.
About something like not found error.
And we'll try to extend customer to right away.
We'll get an error.
It says, hey, you need to make sure that you implement that status code property.
So if we put inside of your status code.
Four of four, it goes away.
So again, very similar in nature to a interface, but we're using a class instead.
Because that's going to allow us to carry a actual class definition over to the JavaScript world.
So next up, we will define a constructor.
The only reason that we are defining a constructor is to make sure we can put in that special little
line of code that we've seen once or twice now that is required any time that we are trying to extend
a built in class.
So it's that same thing that we wrote out over inside of both database connection error and request
validation.
Error is that object set prototype of thing.
So back inside of our custom abstract class, I can make sure I copy one of those over and I'll make
sure that I update the name of the class right there as well to customer.
Because we are defining a constructor, we do have to define super like so.
Then after that, let's set up our other method or the other requirement of anything that wants to be
a customer.
So I'm going to say you must have an abstract method of serialize errors.
So we're not actually defining a method here.
Instead, we are defining a method signature.
So we're saying that to extend customary, you have to define serialize errors and it must return something
that is going to be an array of objects.
And each object must have a message that is a string and optionally can have a field that is a string
as well.
And there we go.
So now we can go back around to our other two custom classes, the database connection error and request
validation error.
We're going to make sure that they extend customer and that's going to put in this requirement that
they must implement a status code and serialize errors with the appropriate signature.
They'll first go over to database connection error at the very top.
I'm going to import custom error from customer.
Now, rather than extending the air built in class, we want this thing to extend custom air.
Like so.
So now if we ever put any type of inside of here, if we ever forget to implement status code, we're
going to get an error.
If we ever misspell status code, we'll get in there.
If we ever return something from serialize errors that does not have the correct structure like just
IM, we'll get an error.
And so again, this is all about making sure that we are implementing these custom error classes correctly.
Now we can repeat that same process inside of request validation here as well.
So at the top I'll do an import custom error.
From customer.
And again I'll update that extend statement to custom air like so.
So again, if I forget to implement status code, it gets an error if I ever make a typo instead of
serialize errors.
We get an ear as well.
Okay.
Let's say that this is a definite improvement.
It's going to make sure that we always implement these classes 100% correctly.
All we have to do is remember to import custom air.
We build a class, we extend customer, and then TypeScript is going to take it from there.
TypeScript is going to tell you, Hey, if you want to be a customer, you got to have that property,
you got to have serialize errors and you won't need anything else, any other information to understand
how to do this stuff or how to actually build out a custom air.
Because TypeScript is going to guide you along the way.
All right.
So now there is one last very quick thing I want to take care of.
Just a very small oversight.
Insight of custom.
We are extending the air class now as a reminder, normally when we create a new air or throw in air,
we'd write out something like new air.
Then we put the reason for the air inside of here.
So generally, whenever we create an air instance, we pass in a string describing exactly what just
happened.
As we've discussed a billion times now, we didn't really want to rely upon that string too much for
trying to communicate any information that eventually will get sent back out to the user.
However, these air messages or whatever string we put inside there will still be printed out inside
of our server logs.
And so it kind of would be nice if something goes wrong inside of our application to still have some
kind of actual string, something that says, Hey, for logging purposes.
Here's what just happened.
So to make sure that we still have that behavior.
Or to essentially have something equivalent to this right here.
We need to make sure that whenever we create an instance of something that is an error, we pass in
the error message or this string into that super function right there.
When we call super right there, that's equivalent to calling new error more or less.
So I'm going to say, in addition to being a customer, in addition to having a status code and serialize
errors and all that stuff, you also have to make sure.
That you provide a message that is a string and we'll just take that message and pass it on through
to the air.
So now when I save that.
We're going to get an error from our database connection error and request validation as well because
they want to see a string or a default message being passed in.
So again, this is just for logging purposes.
So we can put something inside of here that really just makes sense to you and I.
So we could say something inside of here, like here, connecting to DB again, really just duplicating
the reason right there.
And then same thing for request validation.
We can put in something like invalid request.
Parameters.
And again, this is really just for logging purposes.
This is never going to be sent out to any of our users or anything like that.
All right.
Very last thing.
I swear, I noticed that that so many times.
But I really promise at this time last thing we're going to do, we're going to reap the benefits of
all this air stuff inside of our air handler middleware.
Now, rather than writing out these separate if statements and watching for every possible custom air
class, any customer we build should be technically an instance of the custom air class.
So we can change these if statements and condense them down to just one single check.
At the very top, I'm going to delete those two important statements or the very specific customers
we put together.
And I will replace it with customer.
From up one directory air's custom air and now we can go down to just one if statement still going to
delete the second one.
And we can update the instance of check to be custom error instead.
And that's it.
So now if we throw any air from a request handler, that is extending custom air.
Our air handling middleware is going to handle it appropriately.
It's going to take the status code off the custom air instance.
It's going to call serialize errors, and this is going to 100% guarantee as best as we possibly can
that whenever we send a response back from any root handler in any of our services, we're always going
to have a very consistent structure going back.
So something that looks like this right here.
But of course we did end up with message and field like so.
So we'll always have guarantees as best we can once again that we will end up with this structure.
Hmm.
All right.
Once again, I know this area handling stuff has been really nasty.
But we're finally done with it.
One of the reasons that we spent so much time on this era handling stuff is that it turns out that there
is actually a couple other locations or a couple of other things we have to do in all these microservices.
That's going to be relatively similar in nature to what we just did.
So we have tried to essentially condense down a ton of functionality, make it reusable in nature,
and we also try to build up some type guarantees through the use of this abstract class right here.
There are going to be some other scenarios, some other things we're going to go through where we want
to guarantee functionality again as best we can across all of our different services.
Most specifically, this really comes down to a lot of that event handling stuff that we did manually
back on our last project.
So we're going to go through a somewhat similar process when we start to build out all the event handling
stuff this time around.
And again, that's why I want to go through this kind of deep dive on the air handling stuff, make
sure it was clear about why we were creating the abstract classes, why we were extending a base class,
why we wanted to guarantee the structure of data coming to the middleware and all this good stuff.
Well, before we stop, we probably should do just a very quick test here.
Why not?
I'm going to go over to Postman.
I'm going to try to sign up with an invalid email.
Okay.
Looks good.
And I'll put in a valid email.
And I get air connecting to database.
Awesome.
This looks good.
So let's take a pause right here and continue in just a minute.